INERTIAL DAMPERS HAVE FAILED.
Paris:
I CAN'T GET ANY RESPONSE
FROM THE FIELD COILS.
Kes:
THE CONTROL INPUTS?
DID YOU VERIFY
Paris:
THE INPUTS ARE BLOCKED.
STAND BY.
THE PLASMA INJECTORS.
WE'VE GOT TO FLUSH
SYNCHRONIZATION ADJUSTMENT.
OR MAYBE IT'S JUST A PHASE
PLASMA INJECTORS.
RIGHT.
FIELD COILS RESPONDING.
INERTIAL DAMPERS BACK ONLINE.
( chuckling )
THAT WAS NOT FAIR.
AS YOUR FLIGHT INSTRUCTOR,
IT'S MY DUTY
FOR ANYTHING, FAIR OR NOT.
TO PREPARE YOU
INJECTORS IS A DIRTY TRICK.
CLOGGING SOMEONE'S PLASMA
YES, WELL, I'M FAMOUS FOR
MY DIRTY TRICKS, YOU KNOW?
( panting )
WHAT WAS THAT?
I NEVER SAID THE SIMULATION
WAS FINISHED.
EVASIVE MANEUVERS.
COMPUTER...
( Paris and Kes laughing )
FOR ANYTHING NEXT TIME.
I'LL BE READY
A CHALLENGE TO ME!
OH, SOUNDS LIKE
( both laughing )
( bell chimes )
COME IN.
GOOD NEWS, COMMANDER.
I HOPE YOU HAVE
BASED ON THIS INVENTORY,
DOWN TO 30 PERCENT OF CAPACITY.
OUR FOOD RESERVES LOOK TO BE
GOOD NEWS AND BAD.
AN "M" CLASS PLANET.
WE HAVE LOCATED
AND IT SHOWS HIGH AMINO ACID
AND PROTEIN READINGS.
A HEALTHY PLANT LIFE.
THAT SHOULD INDICATE
WHAT'S BAD ABOUT IT?
IT'S A FULL DAY OUT OF OUR WAY.
I DON'T THINK WE HAVE ANY
CHOICE. IT'S THE FIRST CHANCE
WE'VE HAD TO REPLENISH
OUR SUPPLIES IN WEEKS.
AND OUR LONG-RANGE SENSORS
CAN'T CONFIRM ANY PLANT LIFE
ON THE SURFACE.
WHY NOT?
IT'S ONE STRANGE PLANET,
CAPTAIN.
IT'S SHROUDED.
VAPORS COVER IT
LIKE A CURTAIN.
ALL OVER THE ATMOSPHERE.
E.M. DISTURBANCES
SOME OF THESE READINGS SUGGEST A
PLANET
EARLY IN ITS EVOLUTION--
A PRIMEVAL EARTH.
ALMOST LIKE
IN STELLAR CARTOGRAPHY
THE PEOPLE
HAVE ALREADY NICKNAMED IT
"PLANET HELL."
A WILD GOOSE CHASE.
SO IT MIGHT BE
CAPTAIN, I DON'T KNOW
WHAT WE'LL FIND
FLORA OR FAUNA, FRIEND OR FOE.
WHEN WE GET TO THE SURFACE--
IF WE KNEW WE'D FIND
PLANET SOON, I'D...
ANOTHER "M" CLASS
FOR PLANET HELL, COMMANDER.
SET A COURSE
( plays Mozart concerto
in A major )
( door beeping )
THAT WAS YOU?
THAT WAS ME.
I'M IMPRESSED.
I KEEP HEARING
MY MOTHER SAY
"PRACTICE, HARRY,
PRACTICE."
SO I ATE NEELIX'S
FOOD FOR A WEEK
REPLICATOR RATIONS.
AND USED MY
PLAY SOMETHING FOR ME.
WELL, I'VE ONLY HAD IT FOR A FEW
DAYS, AND I DON'T THINK...
PLAY SOMETHING.
OH, COME ON!
I'M NOT HERE.
JUST PRETEND
( continues Mozart concerto )
PLAY SOMETHING DIFFERENT.
DIFFERENT?
NOT SO CHEERFUL.
SOMETHING...
WHY?
WHAT? YOU DON'T
TAKE REQUESTS?
SOMETHING BOTHERING YOU,
PARIS?
( sighing ):
OH, HARRY.
I'M IN TROUBLE.
WHAT'S NEW?
I THINK I'M IN LOVE.
WITH KES.
KES?
I KNOW, I KNOW!
I NEVER EVEN SAW IT COMING.
I THOUGHT WE WERE
JUST GOOD BUDDIES.
BUT THERE SHE WAS,
IN MY ARMS.
IN YOUR ARMS? PARIS...
YOU DIDN'T.
WHAT? OH! NO!
I DIDN'T.
I WOULDN'T!
SHE STUMBLED DURING
A FLIGHT SIMULATION.
I CAUGHT HER.
I HELD HER FOR AN INSTANT.
TO PLAY OR NOT?
ARE YOU GOING
FULL OF WOMEN
A WHOLE CREW
FOR THE ONE I CAN'T HAVE.
AND I HAVE TO FALL
WHY DO I DO THIS
TO MYSELF?
I SAY YOU ENJOY IT.
IF YOU ASK ME,
ENJOY IT?
THAT MAKES SENSE.
ONLY THING
THE SAME THING TO YOURSELF
YOU'VE BEEN DOING
YOUR WHOLE LIFE--
SETTING YOURSELF UP
FOR REJECTION.
PLAYING THE PART.
YOU MUST ENJOY
IF YOU HAVEN'T TRIED IT.
HEY, DON'T KNOCK IT
I JUST HAVE TO BE
MORE CAREFUL.
I CAN'T LET MYSELF
BE ALONE WITH HER.
CHINESE EXPRESSION--
THERE'S AN OLD
"STAY OUT OF HARM'S WAY."
A CHINESE EXPRESSION.
THAT'S NOT
IF IT WORKS, USE IT.
IT WOULD HELP A LITTLE
OF COURSE,
TO BE STUCK ON THE SAME SHIP
IF KES AND I WEREN'T GOING
FOR THE REST OF OUR LIVES.
THAT'S A PESSIMISTIC VIEW.
I'M IN A PESSIMISTIC MOOD.
PLAY SOMETHING
PESSIMISTIC.
PRACTICE, HARRY,
PRACTICE.
( playing up-tempo,
bouncy melody )
AND THEN SUDDENLY WE FELL
INTO A SUBSPACE ANOMALY.
NONE OF THE READINGS
MADE ANY SENSE.
I DIDN'T KNOW
WHAT TO DO.
IT MUST HAVE BEEN
TERRIBLE FOR YOU.
UH, PEPPER, SWEETING?
OH. ANYWAY, IT WAS QUITE
A LEARNING EXPERIENCE.
I'M SURE LIEUTENANT PARIS
IS A FINE TEACHER.
THE PALLIANTYNE PEAS.
OH, I ALMOST FORGOT,
UH...
HMM! EVER SO LIGHTLY SPICED.
ANALYSIS.
Janeway:
OF TRIGEMIC VAPORS
HIGH LEVELS
SUPPORT HUMANOID LIFE.
BUT IT SHOULD STILL
Sick Bay to bridge.
Dr. Zimmerman:
Please turn to your emergency
medical holographic channel.
that I've been eavesdropping.
I hope you don't mind
But I have something important
to contribute.
WHAT IS IT, DOCTOR?
Of course, it wouldn't be
necessary for me
to eavesdrop if I were included
in these discussions
as a matter of operating
protocol.
You should be aware
DOCTOR...
at the recorded levels
that trigemic vapors
can cause severe humanoid
skin irritations.
SKIN PROTECTION THAT MIGHT HELP?
COULD YOU PROVIDE SOME SORT OF
I am whipping up a batch
of dermal osmotic sealant
as we speak.
Nevertheless, skin exposure
to the atmosphere
should be limited.
NOTED, DOCTOR. THANK YOU.
TELL ME, JUST HOW OFTEN
DO YOU... EAVESDROP?
trying to monitor issues
I am simply
of the crew, Captain.
involving the health
the emergency medical program
When activated,
establishes comlinks
of the ship, and I have...
with all key areas
on occasion...
I am a doctor, not a voyeur.
I am programmed to be discreet.
I AM SURE.
COMMANDER CHAKOTAY WILL DISCUSS
OPERATING PROTOCOLS WITH YOU
AT THE EARLIEST OPPORTUNITY.
NO MORE EAVESDROPPING, DOCTOR.
IN THE MEANTIME,
But, Captain, I...
THAT'S AN ORDER.
THERE'S ANOTHER PROBLEM,
CAPTAIN.
TO TRANSPORT TO THE SURFACE
WE WON'T BE ABLE
E.M. DISTURBANCES
IN THE ATMOSPHERE.
BECAUSE OF THE
WITH OUR COMLINKS TOO.
THEY'LL INTERFERE
I'LL HAVE MR. KIM
TAKE A LOOK.
LISTEN, WHY DON'T WE TAKE IN
A HOLODECK PROGRAM LATER?
THAT WILL CHEER YOU UP.
A MOLIERE COMEDY--
JUST EAT LATER.
I THINK I'LL
( chuckling nervously )
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO DO?
DAMN.
VERY SIMPLE. WE JUST
WON'T SIT WITH HER.
BUT THAT'S RUDE.
NO, THAT'S SMART.
WE'LL MAKE IT LOOK LIKE
WE HAVE BRIDGE OPERATIONS
TO DISCUSS.
MAY I RECOMMEND
GENTLEMEN,
HAIR PASTA TODAY?
THE ALFARIAN
HAIR PASTA?
EXPRESSION, ISN'T IT?
THAT IS JUST AN
( laughs )
NOT AT ALL. IT'S ACTUALLY MADE
FROM THE FOLLICLES
OF THE MATURE ALFARIAN.
DURING SHEDDING SEASON
WE HARVEST THE HAIR
IN EARLY FALL.
IT'S VERY HIGH
IN PROTEIN.
WHATEVER.
WE JUST HAVE A LOT
OF BRIDGE OPERATIONS
BUSINESS TO DISCUSS.
Mr. Kim, please report
to the bridge.
Chakotay:
HAVE A NICE LUNCH.
YOU SUBCLASS GENUS.
I BEG YOUR PARDON.
SITTING WITH YOUR BACKS
TO EACH OTHER
WAITING FOR A TRANSPORT.
LIKE TWO STRANGERS
THAT'S SUPPOSED
TO FOOL ME?
OH. A GUY JUST CAN'T WIN.
LOOK, THERE IS NOTHING
TO FOOL YOU ABOUT.
REALLY. I SWEAR.
LIAR.
WHAT THE HELL ARE YOU DOING?
I'LL KILL YOU!
IT'S TOO LATE!
Paris:
I'M BETTING YOUR HAIR PASTA
ALREADY DID THE TRICK!
Janeway to Lieutenant Paris
and Mr. Neelix.
GO AHEAD.
YES, CAPTAIN?
Please report to my ready room
right away.
I have something important
to discuss with you.
UH, CAPTAIN, DID YOU SAY
"RIGHT AWAY"?
That's what I said, Mr. Paris.
IF WE COULD HAVE...
Janeway out.
CARE TO EXPLAIN?
WOULD ANYONE
TO GO INTO RIGHT NOW, CAPTAIN.
IT MIGHT BE TOO LONG
VERY WELL. I HAVE A MISSION
FOR THE TWO OF YOU.
WE HAVE REASON TO BELIEVE
THAT THERE ARE FOOD SOURCES
ON THIS PLANET,
BUT WE CAN'T TRANSPORT
TO THE SURFACE.
YOU'RE GOING TO TAKE
A SHUTTLE DOWN
AND DO A LITTLE SCOUTING.
ME... AND HIM?
AND YOU'RE OUR EXPERT
HE'S OUR BEST PILOT,
ON EDIBLE PLANT SPECIES
IN THIS QUADRANT.
UH, CAPTAIN,
TO PASS UP A MISSION,
I'M NOT ONE
BUT IN THIS CIRCUMSTANCE,
MAYBE ENSIGN BAYTART,
WHO IS A FINE PILOT--
ANOMALIES IN THE ATMOSPHERE,
THERE ARE ELECTROMAGNETIC
AND I WOULD RATHER HAVE YOU
AT THE HELM.
AM I... DISCERNING
A PERSONAL PROBLEM HERE,
GENTLEMEN?
FRANKLY, YES, CAPTAIN.
YOU LEAVE AT 1400 HOURS.
SOLVE IT.
WE'RE MODIFYING
THE TRANSPORTER
TO TRY AND PENETRATE
THE ATMOSPHERE.
SO FAR NO LUCK.
HOWEVER, WE HAVE BEEN RUNNING
COMPUTER SIMULATIONS
TO DETERMINE
FOLLOW ANY SPECIFIC PATTERN.
IF THE E.M. DISTURBANCES
OUR DATA ANALYSIS
SUGGESTS THAT
THERE MAY BE OCCASIONAL
ATMOSPHERIC WINDOWS
US TO GET THROUGH.
THAT WOULD ALLOW
AND HOW LONG WILL THEY LAST?
HOW OCCASIONAL
EVERY 30 HOURS OR SO,
WE SHOULD SEE ONE
FOR A MATTER OF MINUTES.
BUT THEY MAY ONLY LAST
I CAN'T BE SURE YET.
AT LEAST LONG ENOUGH FOR US
TO BEAM UP FOOD SUPPLIES.
AND MR. NEELIX WILL COLLECT
MR. PARIS, YOU
AND FRUITS AS YOU CAN
AS MANY VEGETABLES
ATMOSPHERIC WINDOW TO OPEN.
WHILE WE WAIT FOR THIS
MR. KIM, BE SURE YOUR COMPUTER
SIMULATIONS INCLUDE...
I HEARD THAT...
WHAT HAPPENED?
NOTHING HAPPENED.
THEY SAID THAT YOU
AND TOM PARIS...
KES, WE'LL TALK
WHEN I GET BACK.
I WANT TO KNOW.
THAT YOU WERE FIGHTING?
NEELIX, IS IT TRUE
WHEN I GET BACK.
SHUTTLEBAY.
GOOD AFTERNOON.
COULD YOU RUN AN ANALYSIS
WHEN YOU HAVE A CHANCE,
OF THE CYTOKINETIC
RESULTS FOR...
I DID IT DURING LUNCH.
ARE YOU ALL RIGHT?
I'M FINE.
YOU SEEM A LITTLE...
ARE YOU SURE?
I'M FINE.
YOU KNOW, IF YOU SKIPPED
LUNCH, THE RESULT
BLOOD SUGAR LEVEL
MIGHT BE A LOWER
WHICH COULD...
I'M SORRY. IT'S
IN MY PROGRAM.
MUST ATTEMPT TO DIAGNOSE IT.
I SEE SOMETHING WRONG, I
THERE ARE SOME THINGS
YOU CAN'T CURE.
NEELIX AND TOM PARIS HAD
A PHYSICAL... FIGHT.
OVER ME.
HOW DELIGHTFUL.
DELIGHTFUL?
YOU SHOULD CONSIDER IT
A HIGH COMPLIMENT.
FOUGHT OVER THE LOVE OF A WOMAN.
THROUGHOUT HISTORY, MEN HAVE
WHY, I CAN QUOTE YOU
AUTOPSY REPORTS
FROM DUELS AS FAR BACK AS 1538.
THAT'S NOT FUNNY.
IT'S NOT MEANT TO BE.
YOU'VE ALWAYS BEEN INTERESTED
IN AUTOPSIES.
ARE ALL TALAXIANS SO JEALOUS?
I'VE ONLY MET ONE.
I WOULDN'T KNOW.
I LOVE NEELIX.
JUST ACCEPT THAT?
WHY CAN'T HE
ARE COMPLETELY UNJUSTIFIED.
HIS SUSPICIONS ABOUT TOM
ARE THEY?
LIEUTENANT PARIS' AFFECTION
FOR YOU IS OBVIOUS.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
I MEAN HE... DESIRES YOU.
THAT'S NOT TRUE.
EACH OTHER'S COMPANY.
TOM AND I ENJOY
WE'RE FRIENDS.
WHENEVER YOU WALK INTO THE ROOM,
HIS RESPIRATION INCREASES,
HIS PUPILS DILATE
AND THE COLORATION OF HIS EARS
TURNS DECIDEDLY ORANGE.
UNTIL I NOTICED THE PATTERN,
I THOUGHT HE WAS SUFFERING
FROM TANZIAN FLU.
IT'S THERE FOR ANYONE
TO SEE, MAYBE NOT
IN THE SAME DIAGNOSTIC DETAIL
AS I SEE IT, YET...
THAT I DIDN'T WANT TO SEE IT?
ARE YOU SAYING
YOU'RE ONLY TWO YEARS OLD.
THERE MAY BE A FEW THINGS...
TO LOOK FOR IN A MAN.
YOU DON'T KNOW
YOU'LL UNDERSTAND.
IN TIME,
IT'S SO MUCH SIMPLER.
ON MY HOME WORLD,
YOU CHOOSE A MATE FOR LIFE.
THERE IS NO DISTRUST,
NO JEALOUSLY,
NO ENVY, NO BETRAYAL.
HMM, YOUR WORLD MUST HAVE
VERY DRY LITERATURE.
I DON'T KNOW HOW TO HANDLE
SOMETHING LIKE THIS.
WHAT AM I GOING TO DO?
YOU'VE DONE NOTHING
THIS STATE OF AFFAIRS.
TO PRECIPITATE
MUCH TO RESOLVE IT, EITHER.
YOU MAY NOT BE ABLE TO DO
THERE ARE SOME THINGS
YOU CAN'T CURE.
AT TWO MINUTES. MARK.
ENTRY SEQUENCE
ALL SYSTEMS NORMAL.
AT .041 AND RISING.
TRIGEMIC DENSITY
WITH VOYAGER 3O SECONDS AGO.
WE LOST COMMUNICATION
YOU DON'T HAVE TO IMPRESS
ME WITH YOUR TECHNOBABBLE.
TO IMPRESS ANYONE.
I'M NOT TRYING
INTO THE FLIGHT RECORD.
I'M ENTERING IT
LOOK, CAN I MAKE
A SUGGESTION?
YOU'RE THE COMMANDER
OF THIS MISSION.
SUGGESTION YOU WANT.
YOU CAN MAKE ANY
AND IF YOU MAKE IT AN ORDER,
I'LL EVEN HAVE TO OBEY IT.
MY SUGGESTION IS THAT WE PUT
OUR PERSONAL PROBLEMS ASIDE
UNTIL THIS MISSION
IS OVER, OKAY?
I LEFT MY PERSONAL PROBLEMS
BACK ON THE SHIP.
FINE!
I CAN'T SPEAK FOR YOU.
LET'S GET THE JOB DONE.
YOU GET US DOWN IN ONE PIECE
AND I'LL TAKE
IT FROM THERE.
AT THREE MINUTES. MARK.
ENTRY SEQUENCE
ALL SYSTEMS... STAND BY.
HAVE YOU BEEN BRIEFED
ON SHUTTLE OPERATIONS?
ENSIGN BAYTART TOOK ME
THROUGH THE BASICS.
OF COURSE, I..
I DIDN'T HAVE
THE BENEFIT OF YOUR
PERSONAL TUTELAGE.
CHECK YOUR CONSOLE.
A POWER-OUTPUT DECLINE
I'M READING
OF... 15 PERCENT.
CONFIRMED.
Computer:
Warning.
Vectored exhaust controls
malfunctioning.
WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
SOME KIND OF REACTION
WE'RE GETTING
IN OUR DRIVER COIL ASSEMBLY
FROM THE E.M. ANOMALIES
IN THE ATMOSPHERE.
THE MISSION. HOLD ON.
I'M GOING TO ABORT
WE'VE LOST OUR IMPULSE DRIVE!
THE DEUTERIUM FLOW.
SHUT OFF
I'M DUMPING EXCESS FUEL.
DEUTERIUM FLOW SEALED.
SETTING D.C.A. PULSE ORDER
TO NEUTRAL.
ENGAGING THRUSTERS.
CAN YOU REGAIN CONTROL?
I'M TRYING, NEELIX.
AN EMERGENCY LANDING.
PREPARE FOR
SEND OUT AN E.M.S. PULSE.
VOYAGER WILL PICK IT UP.
THERE'S STILL A CHANCE
( grunting )
LOCATOR SIGNAL FROM THE SHUTTLE.
CAPTAIN, WE'RE PICKING UP A
CAN YOU TRACK IT?
THEIR LAST VELOCITY VECTOR
INDICATES A STEEP DESCENT.
WE'VE LOST CONTACT.
Torres: Torres here.
BRIDGE TO TORRES.
OUR SHUTTLE'S IN TROUBLE.
B'ELANNA,
ANY PROGRESS ON MODIFYING
THE TRANSPORTER?
NEGATIVE.
IT'S AN EXTREMELY COMPLEX
INTERFERENCE PATTERN
AND IT KEEPS CHANGING.
HELP AS YOU NEED.
BRING IN AS MUCH
THIS IS NOW A SEARCH AND
RESCUE OPERATION.
Acknowledged.
Torres out.
KEEP ME INFORMED.
MY READY ROOM.
I'LL BE IN
I SAID...
IN ONE PIECE.
SORRY.
I DID THE BEST I COULD.
ANY BROKEN BONES?
EVERYTHING SEEMS
TO BE WORKING.
( groaning )
I'M ITCHING.
YEAH, I FEEL IT TOO.
WE'VE GOT ATMOSPHERIC
LEAKAGE IN THE HULL.
THE TRIGEMIC VAPORS
REALLY STING.
HERE.
THIS WOULD HELP A LITTLE.
DOC SAID
IF WE HAVE ATMOSPHERIC LEAKAGE,
HOW CAN WE FLY OUT OF HERE?
WE CAN'T. WE'LL HAVE TO WAIT
FOR VOYAGER TO FIND US.
WE'RE NOT EVEN SURE THEY'RE
LOOKING FOR US YET.
WE DON'T KNOW IF THE E.M.S.
PULSE GOT THROUGH.
B'ELANNA'S WORKING ON
THE TRANSPORTER,
AND ONE OF THOSE ATMOSPHERIC
WINDOWS MIGHT OPEN UP.
IN THE MEANTIME, WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO LOOK FOR
SOME KIND OF COVER.
I SAY WE STAY RIGHT HERE.
THE TRIGEMIC VAPORS
ARE GOING TO--
YOU'RE THE ONE WHO WANTS TO
GO OUT INTO THOSE VAPORS!
STAYING HERE IS OUR BEST CHANCE
OF BEING FOUND.
YOU HEARD WHAT THEY SAID.
THOSE WINDOWS ARE MAY ONLY BE
OPEN FOR A MATTER OF MINUTES.
WAITING HERE FOR DAYS.
AND WE MAY BE
EXPOSURE TO THESE VAPORS
IS TOO DANGEROUS.
GRAB YOUR GEAR.
WE'RE LEAVING.
IS THAT AN ORDER
OR A SUGGESTION?
AN ORDER!
YES, SIR.
I HOPE YOU'RE SATISFIED.
WE WERE A LOT MORE COMFORTABLE
INSIDE THE SHUTTLE.
ALL OVER MY HANDS.
I HAVE RED WELTS
YOU KNOW, IT MIGHT BE
MORE CONSTRUCTIVE
SOMETHING SAFE TO EAT.
IF YOU COULD FIND US
I CERTAINLY DON'T KNOW
Neelix:
WHY THE SHIP'S SENSORS
INDICATED THIS PLANET
IN FOOD SUPPLIES.
MIGHT BE RICH
IT SURE DOESN'T LOOK IT.
OUR EMERGENCY RATIONS
WON'T LAST FOREVER.
I'LL FIND SOMETHING FOR US.
IT MIGHT NOT MEET
OF COURSE,
CULINARY STANDARDS.
YOUR PERSONAL
OH, DON'T WORRY.
LOWER MY STANDARDS
I'VE LEARNED TO
SINCE YOU BECAME COOK.
I'M PICKING UP
SOME CAVES
ABOUT A KILOMETER
WEST OF HERE.
WHAT GOOD FORTUNE.
( door chimes )
COME IN.
HARRY.
ANY WORD YET?
EVERYTHING POSSIBLE.
WE'RE DOING
THE TRANSPORTER JUST
DOESN'T WANT TO WORK
IN THAT ATMOSPHERE.
HOW ARE YOU DOING?
OH, I'M ALL RIGHT.
IT'S JUST, UH...
I WAS VERY ANGRY AT THEM
A FEW HOURS AGO.
YOU HAD EVERY RIGHT TO BE.
MIGHT BOTH BE DEAD.
AND NOW THEY
AND I'M SITTING HERE...
AND I'M FEELING GUILTY
FOR SOME REASON.
GUILTY? WHY?
I DON'T KNOW.
I DON'T LIKE IT.
AND IT'S THEIR FAULT
AND I CAN'T EVEN TELL THEM
HOW ANGRY I AM AT THEM
AND I MAY NEVER BE ABLE TO TELL
THEM HOW ANGRY I AM AT THEM!
SO IT DOESN'T MATTER, DOES IT?
IF THERE WAS ANY WAY
LOOK, YOU KNOW
TO LAND THAT SHUTTLE,
TOM PARIS GOT IT DOWN.
SURVIVAL SKILLS THAN NEELIX.
AND NO ONE HAS STRONGER
I'M SURE THEY'LL
BOTH BE FINE.
UNLESS THEY KILL EACH OTHER.
( laughs )
THEY'RE PROFESSIONALS.
THEY BETTER BE ALL RIGHT,
BECAUSE WHEN I SEE THEM,
GOING TO TELL THEM
I'M PERSONALLY
THAT I NEVER INTEND TO SPEAK
TO EITHER ONE OF THEM AGAIN.
Chakotay to crew,
battle stations.
THIS IS GOOD.
WE CAN LAST A WHILE IN HERE.
THAT SHOULD
DO IT.
GARNESITE.
YEAH.
A LITTLE HEAT AT LEAST.
THIS WILL GIVE US
WE BETTER CONSERVE
OUR BEACON CELLS.
SO...
( clearing throat )
WHAT IS STAR FLEET PROTOCOL
FOR SITUATIONS LIKE THIS?
A WHOLE COURSE
OH, THERE'S
FULL OF ALL SORTS
AT THE ACADEMY
OF SURVIVAL STRATEGIES.
I HOPE YOU HAD A PASSING GRADE.
B-MINUS.
THAT'S NOT VERY ENCOURAGING.
MY FATHER WAS TEACHING
THE CLASS THAT YEAR.
AND HE GAVE YOU A B-MINUS?
PLAY FAVORITES, HUH?
I GUESS HE DIDN'T
( laughs )
WHAT ABOUT TALAXIAN PROTOCOLS?
I WROTE MY OWN BOOK.
MY LIFE BEFORE VOYAGER
OF FELARAN ROSE PETALS.
WAS NO BED
( laughs )
NO, MORE LIKE A BED OF...
WHAT?
NOTHING.
TO SAY "JUNK" PERHAPS?
YOU WERE GOING
GO AHEAD. SAY IT--
JUNK.
I WAS A DEALER IN JUNK.
OF A WOMAN LIKE KES,
PERHAPS NOT WORTHY
IN YOUR OPINION.
NEELIX, I DIDN'T SAY THAT.
I NEVER EVEN--
( creaking )
TELL ME SOMETHING.
IN THAT STAR FLEET
SURVIVAL COURSE,
DID YOUR FATHER TEACH YOU
TO CHECK FOR LIFE SIGNS
BEFORE YOU SEAL YOURSELF
INSIDE A CAVE?
I CHECKED FOR LIFE SIGNS.
THERE WEREN'T ANY.
THERE ARE NOW.
HAIL THEM.
THEY DO NOT RESPOND,
CAPTAIN.
THEY'RE POWERING DOWN
THEIR WEAPONS SYSTEMS.
A POSITION DIRECTLY BENEATH US.
THE VESSEL HAS TAKEN UP
WHAT DO YOU MAKE OF IT,
LIEUTENANT?
THEY WOULD SEEM TO HAVE ADOPTED
A DEFENSIVE POSTURE, CAPTAIN.
I AGREE, BUT DEFENDING WHAT?
THE PLANET?
OR SOMETHING ON IT.
WHATEVER THIS LIFE-FORM IS...
ARE AWFULLY FAINT.
ITS VITAL SIGNS
IN THIS ATMOSPHERE,
DYING OF EXPOSURE.
IT COULD BE
NO, I DON'T THINK SO.
THEY'RE FAINT...
BUT STEADY.
I'D SAY IT'S BECOMING
MORE AND MORE EVIDENT
THE WRONG CAVE.
THAT WE CHOSE
THIS IS WHERE THE LIFE
SIGNS ARE COMING FROM.
THEY'RE EMBRYONIC
LIFE-FORMS.
THESE TWO ARE HALF FORMED,
BUT THIS ONE
ALMOST SEEMS TO BE...
MATCH THE COMPUTER SIMULATIONS.
THE E.M. DISTURBANCE PATTERNS
I'D SAY WE'LL GET A SHOT
AT AN ATMOSPHERIC WINDOW
IN ABOUT 53 MINUTES.
WHERE DOES THAT LEAVE US
WITH THE TRANSPORTER?
OUR RANGE WILL STILL BE LIMITED,
BUT THE TRANSPORTER
SHOULD WORK
AS LONG AS WE STAY
IN AN AREA
ELECTROMAGNETIC ACTIVITY.
WITH REDUCED
THE PROBLEM IS WE DON'T KNOW
WHERE OUR SHUTTLE WENT DOWN.
SO THERE'S NO WAY TO KNOW
HOW CLOSE THEY'LL BE
TO THE WINDOW WHEN
IT OPENS.
RECOMMENDATIONS?
TAKE THE SHIP THROUGH THE WINDOW
INTO THE ATMOSPHERE.
THE CLOSER YOU CAN GET US
TO THE SURFACE,
FOR A SUCCESSFUL BEAM-OUT.
THE BETTER OUR CHANCES
GET ON IT.
ARE YOU GOING TO BE ABLE
TO WARN US
BEFORE THE WINDOW
CLOSES AGAIN?
I THINK SO.
MR. KIM,
THAT'S NOT AN ANSWER
I CAN LIVE WITH.
A BETTER ONE, CAPTAIN.
I'LL TRY TO GET YOU
MR. TUVOK, WE NEED YOU TO FIND
A WAY TO GET US BY THAT SHIP.
YOUR REQUEST, CAPTAIN.
I HAVE ANTICIPATED
AM I CORRECT IN THE ASSUMPTION
THAT YOU WILL WANT TO USE
ASSUMPTION CONFIRMED.
MINIMAL FORCE?
GUARANTEE SUCCESS.
I CANNOT
OF THEIR WEAPONS SYSTEMS
MY EVALUATION
EQUAL TO OUR OWN. HOWEVER...
SUGGESTS A CAPACITY
YOU'VE COME UP WITH AN INGENIOUS
PLAN TO NEUTRALIZE THEM.
I HAVE.
OF OUR FIRST ENCOUNTER,
IN MY ANALYSIS
WHAT I BELIEVE TO BE
I HAVE DETECTED
IN THEIR SHIELD CONFIGURATION.
A VULNERABILITY
THERE APPEARS TO BE A SLIGHT
PHASE RETRACTION
WHEN AUXILIARY POWER
IS TRANSFERRED
WEAPONS SYSTEMS.
TO THEIR AFT
INTO THEIR AFT CONTROL SYSTEMS
A CO-VARIANT PHASER PULSE
MIGHT DISABLE THEIR ENTIRE
WEAPONS ARRAY.
MY "INGENIOUS" PLAN, COMMANDER.
THAT WAS
YOU ARE CORRECT.
VERY WELL. RED ALERT.
MR. KIM, SET COORDINATES.
TORRES, SPEED AT 2,000 K.P.H.
AYE, CAPTAIN.
CHAKOTAY, TAKE THE HELM.
COORDINATES ENTERED.
Kim:
ENGAGE.
THIS CREATURE'S GOING
TO HAVE THE ABILITY
TO STAND UPRIGHT.
IT HAS THE SKELETAL SYSTEM
OF A HUMANOID.
HAS REPTILIAN EPIDERMIS.
IT'S COLD-BLOODED,
IS SIGNIFICANTLY LARGER
ITS BRAIN
REPTILIAN SPECIES.
THAN MOST
I'D SAY WE'RE DEALING WITH
A SENTIENT LIFE-FORM
HERE, NEELIX.
IF THIS SPECIES IS SENTIENT
WOULDN'T THAT SUGGEST THAT
ITS PARENTS MIGHT RETURN
TO CARE FOR IT?
IT'S HARD
TO SAY.
MOST COMMON REPTILES
LAY THEIR EGGS
AND NEVER RETURN
TO PROTECT THEM.
I THINK WE'VE ESTABLISHED
WITH A COMMON REPTILE.
WE'RE NOT DEALING
TRUE.
AND IF THIS THING DOES HAVE A
MOTHER,
TO BE AROUND WHEN SHE GETS BACK.
I'D SAY WE DON'T WANT
COME ON.
WE CAN'T JUST
LEAVE IT HERE.
LEAVING IT HERE.
WE'RE NOT
ITS MOTHER LEFT IT HERE.
WE JUST HAPPENED TO WANDER IN.
BUT WE BLOCKED OFF
THE CAVE.
THE MOTHER MIGHT HAVE BEEN
TRAPPED OUTSIDE.
OPEN FOR HER WHEN WE GO, OKAY?
WE'LL LEAVE THE DOOR
LOOK, IT'S NOT THAT SIMPLE.
WHAT IF SHE CAN SENSE
WE WERE HERE?
SHE MIGHT BE ABLE TO SMELL THAT
FAUX LIME AFTERSHAVE OF YOURS.
I'M SURE YOU REALIZE
MANY SPECIES WON'T RETURN
TO A NEST
AFTER IT'S BEEN TAMPERED WITH.
THERE'S NOT MUCH WE CAN DO
ABOUT THAT NOW, IS THERE?
WE SHOULD JUST LEAVE ALL THIS
THE WAY WE FOUND IT.
NEELIX!
NO.
IS OUR RESPONSIBILITY.
THIS CREATURE
THE MOMENT WE CAME IN HERE
OURS?
OUR RESPONSIBILITY.
IT BECAME
AND YOU EXPECT TO TAKE CARE
OF THIS THING UNTIL WHAT?
IT GRADUATES FROM HIGH SCHOOL,
COLLEGE?
DOESN'T COME BACK?
AND WHAT IF MOM
ARE YOU PLANNING TO BRING THIS
WITH US BACK ON THE SHIP?
AND ACCEPTS THE HATCHLING,
LOOK, IF SHE DOES RETURN
IT'LL SOLVE EVERYTHING.
AND SEE WHAT SHE DOES.
WE JUST HAVE TO WAIT
I DON'T KNOW HOW IT IS
IN YOUR QUADRANT,
BUT IN MINE WE DON'T ABANDON
A NEWBORN... THING.
( sighs )
FINE.
FINE, YOU'VE MADE YOUR POINT.
I OFFICIALLY DESIGNATE YOU
ITS GODFATHER.
IT STOPPED CRYING.
IT'S SHIVERING.
THAT'S NORMAL... ISN'T IT?
I MEAN, NEWBORN LIFE-FORMS
DON'T THEY?
DO SHIVER,
TO BE HONEST, I HAVEN'T BEEN
AROUND MANY NEWBORNS.
ME NEITHER.
AWW... LOOK AT THIS, PARIS.
Neelix:
IT STOPPED SHIVERING.
IT'S ASLEEP.
FORGET WHAT I SAID,
NEELIX.
ITS GODFATHER.
YOU'RE NOT
YOU'RE ITS GODMOTHER.
THE ATMOSPHERIC WINDOW
IS FORMING, CAPTAIN.
THE PREDICTED COORDINATES.
30 DEGREES OFF
MAXIMUM APERTURE, MR. KIM?
HOW SOON WILL WE HAVE
ALL RIGHT, COMMANDER.
NINE MINUTES.
FROM THEIR AFT WEAPON SYSTEMS.
LET'S TRY TO DRAW SOME FIRE
BRING US WITHIN TEN KILOMETERS.
SHIELDS AT 80 PERCENT.
TO OUR PORT NACELLE.
MINOR DAMAGE
TO LATERAL THRUSTERS.
RE-ROUTING POWER
TUVOK?
SO FAR, I'M NOT DETECTING
THE SAME VULNERABILITY
IN THEIR SHIELDS THIS TIME,
CAPTAIN.
WE MAY HAVE TO RESORT
TO ADDITIONAL FORCE.
ARM PHOTONS.
Kim: READY.
STAND BY, CAPTAIN.
PREPARE TO...
I'M DETECTING
AN OPENING.
DIRECT HIT TO THEIR
AFT CONTROL SYSTEMS.
THEIR WEAPONS
ARE DISABLED.
TO MR. KIM'S COORDINATES.
COMMANDER, PROCEED
ONE-HALF IMPULSE.
OH, COME ON. COME ON.
Paris:
FOR STARFLEET RATIONS.
DOESN'T SEEM TO CARE
IF I WERE IN MY KITCHEN,
DELIGHTFUL LEOLA ROOT BROTH.
I COULD COOK YOU UP SOME
ARE YOU SERIOUS?
SEE ANOTHER LEOLA ROOT
UGH, I HOPE I NEVER
AND YOU'RE CERTAINLY
NOT FEEDING
ANY OF THAT HIDEOUS
BROTH TO MY NIECE...
OR NEPHEW...
WHATEVER IT IS.
IS GETTING WEAKER.
ITS HEARTBEAT
I DON'T LIKE IT.
COME ON, KID.
YOU'VE GOT TO EAT SOMETHING.
IT SEEMS FAR MORE INTERESTED
IN MY JACKET THAN YOUR FOOD.
Paris:
NEELIX
IT'S NOT YOUR JACKET.
OF THE TRIGEMIC VAPORS
IT'S THE RESIDUE
WE WALKED THROUGH.
THINK ABOUT IT.  VOYAGER'S
SENSORS
OF PROTEINS AND AMINO ACIDS
PICKED UP HIGH LEVELS
WHICH WE ASSUMED MEANT
THIS WAS A PLANET
FILLED WITH VAST SUPPLIES
OF EDIBLE PLANT LIFE.
WE WERE CERTAINLY WRONG
ABOUT THAT.
THE RESIDUE IS A CONCENTRATION
OF PROTEINS AND AMINO ACIDS.
A PERFECT SOURCE
OF NUTRITION
FOR THE HATCHLING.
WHEN WE BLOCKED THE CAVE.
THE SOURCE WE CUT OFF
SOME ROCKS TO MOVE.
COME ON, WE'VE GOT
THE ATMOSPHERIC WINDOW IS AT
FULL APERTURE, CAPTAIN.
WE SHOULD HAVE AT LEAST
17 MINUTES
BEFORE IT STARTS TO CLOSE.
CAPTAIN, THE ALIEN VESSEL
IS IN PURSUIT.
ARE THEIR WEAPONS SYSTEMS
BACK ON LINE ALREADY?
THEY ARE STILL DISABLED.
NEGATIVE.
THEY COULDN'T BE PREPARING
TO RAM US, COULD THEY?
HOLD YOUR COURSE. WE NEED TO GET
THROUGH THAT WINDOW,
EVASIVE ACTION IF NECESSARY.
BUT PREPARE TO TAKE
UNDERSTOOD.
ALIEN VESSEL CLOSING
TO 1,000 KILOMETERS.
500.
300.
PROCEEDING TOWARD THE SURFACE.
IT HAS PASSED US AND IS
TAKE US DOWN, COMMANDER.
IT'S NOT BREATHING!
I DON'T THINK IT'S BREATHING!
COME ON, SUCK IN
SOME OF THOSE
HEARTY VAPORS.
IT'S JUST TOO WEAK.
THERE MUST BE SOMETHING IN HERE
WE CAN USE TO RESUSCITATE IT.
THE BEST WE COULD.
NEELIX, WE DID
IT'S OUR FAULT, OUR FAULT.
NO!
IF WE HADN'T COME...
HERE. CORDRAZINE.
THIS IS A STIMULANT.
YOU CAN'T PUMP IT FULL OF DRUGS
ITS BODY CHEMISTRY.
WITHOUT KNOWING
SO WE SHOULD JUST LET IT DIE?
GIVE ME THAT.
A BABY BIRD FELL OUT OF A NEST
WHEN I WAS A KID,
AND LANDED ON THE WINDOW SILL
NEXT TO MY BED.
WE HAD TO FEED IT WATER
WITH AN EYEDROPPER
TO KEEP IT ALIVE.
YOU DOING?
WHAT ARE
FILLING THE EYEDROPPER.
CAN YOU HOLD ITS MOUTH OPEN?
DO IT AGAIN. AGAIN.
IT'S WORKING.
IT'S WORKING!
GETTING STRONGER.
LIFE SIGNS ARE
YOU DID IT!
WE DID IT.
THOUGHT OF THAT HYPOSPRAY IF...
YOU KNOW, I NEVER WOULD HAVE
THE VAPORS...
WHO CARES?
AS WELL AS CAN BE EXPECTED
SENSORS ARE OPERATING
UNDER THESE CONDITIONS.
EITHER WE'RE JUST NOT CLOSE
ENOUGH TO WHERE THEY LANDED
TO PICK UP THEIR COM SIGNALS,
OR THEY NEVER LANDED.
BURNED UP IN THE ATMOSPHERE.
THEIR SHUTTLE MIGHT HAVE
TO CONCEDE THAT YET.
I'M NOT WILLING
ANY SIGN OF THE ALIEN SHIP?
NO. CAPTAIN. WE'VE
LOST THEM.
MR. KIM, HOW MUCH LONGER
BEFORE THAT WINDOW
NINE MINUTES, 20 SECONDS.
STARTS TO CLOSE?
SURVEILLANCE PATTERN.
CHAKOTAY, EXTEND OUR
IF WE DON'T FIND THEM
IN FIVE MINUTES
WE'LL HEAD BACK
TO THE WINDOW.
AYE, CAPTAIN.
I'M SORRY.
HMM?
I FEEL I OWE YOU
AN APOLOGY.
NO, YOU DON'T.
THAT PASTA IN YOUR LAP.
I HAD NO RIGHT TO PUSH
OF IT THIS WAY:
WELL... THINK
HAVING TO EAT IT.
IT SAVED ME FROM
NOTHING PERSONAL,
BUT I JUST DON'T
HAVE AN AFFINITY
FOR HAIR IN MY FOOD.
I HAVEN'T BEEN FAIR TO YOU.
YOU KNOW, I HEAR PEOPLE TALKING
ABOUT YOU IN THE MESS HALL.
NO KIDDING.
WHAT DO THEY SAY?
OH, THAT YOU USED
TO BE A COWARD
AND COULDN'T BE TRUSTED.
THAT SHE WOULD BEFRIEND
IT'S TYPICAL OF KES
SOMEONE LIKE YOU--
SOMEONE WHO REALLY
NEEDS A FRIEND.
AND I GUESS I... JUST
GOT A LITTLE JEALOUS.
A LITTLE JEALOUS.
I GOT MORE THAN
I REALIZE NOW I WAS WRONG.
NEELIX, I TOLD YOU THE TRUTH
HAPPENED BETWEEN ME AND KES.
WHEN I SAID THAT NOTHING
I KNOW.
AND I PROMISE YOU,
NOTHING EVER WILL
BUT...
YOU WEREN'T WRONG ABOUT ME.
WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
I...
WELL, I GUESS THE ONLY WAY
TO SAY IT IS TO SAY IT.
I AM ATTRACTED TO KES.
OH?
TO BE HONEST, IF YOU
WEREN'T AROUND,
I'D BE KNOCKING
AT HER DOOR.
BUT I RESPECT
YOU, NEELIX.
AND THAT'S THAT.
THOSE GUYS SAYING ABOUT ME
EVERYTHING YOU HEARD
WELL, IT WAS TRUE.
WHO I AM ANYMORE.
BUT IT'S NOT
WHO I WANT TO BE.
AT LEAST NOT
THIS UPSIDE-DOWN MISSION
TO THE WRONG SIDE
OF THE GALAXY
A SECOND CHANCE,
HAS GIVEN ME
AND I DON'T INTEND
TO BLOW IT.
I SEE.
I CAN'T SAY I BLAME YOU.
WELL, IN A WAY,
SHE IS VERY ATTRACTIVE.
( chuckles )
SHE'S DEVOTED TO YOU,
YOU KNOW?
WELL, I DID SAVE HER LIFE.
I'M SURE SHE'S GRATEFUL.
OH,, SHE'S A LOT MORE
THAN GRATEFUL.
I WOULDN'T STAND A CHANCE.
SHE LOVES YOU, NEELIX.
NOBODY WOULD.
THERE ARE OTHERS?
IF YOU EVER DOUBT YOURSELF,
JUST LOOK INTO HER EYES
SHE LOOKS AT YOU.
SEE THE WAY
DOUBT YOURSELF AGAIN.
YOU'LL NEVER
AND AS FAR AS
I'M CONCERNED,
I'LL JUST BE HER FRIEND--
I MEAN, IF YOU DON'T MIND.
KES' FRIENDS FOR HER.
I DON'T PICK
JUST MY OWN.
( static )
VOYAGER, THIS IS LIEUTENANT
TOM PARIS AND MR. NEELIX.
Janeway: We do, Mr. Paris.
DO YOU READ?
ASIDE FROM A NASTY RASH, YES.
Are you all right?
HAVE YOU ENCOUNTERED LIFE-FORMS?
ARE THEY HOSTILE?
Actually, yes.
NO.
JUST... YOUNG.
YOUNG?
Yes, we found a nest,
and one of the creatures
hatched.
HOSTILE SHIP OF UNKNOWN ORIGIN,
BE AWARE WE ENCOUNTERED A
AND WE'RE SHOWING THAT SHIP
ON THE SURFACE
APPROXIMATELY ONE KILOMETER
FROM YOUR POSITION.
to you for transport. Stand by.
We're attempting to lock on
WE CAN'T LEAVE YET.
WHAT? WHY?
WHAT IF THE MOTHER REJECTS IT?
THING'S FOR SURE--
NEELIX, ONE
WHETHER THE MOTHER
REJECTS IT OR NOT,
SHE WILL REJECT
YOU AND ME.
WE WOULDN'T ABANDON IT UNTIL...
WE PROMISED EACH OTHER
Away Team, we're showing
a life-form moving
Janeway:
toward your position.
Prepare to transport.
CAPTAIN, THIS IS NEELIX.
ARE YOU IN A PARTICULAR
RUSH TO LEAVE?
DID YOU HEAR WHAT I JUST SAID,
MR. NEELIX?
YES, BUT WE'RE NOT QUITE
finished here yet.
FINISHED WITH WHAT? WE HAVE AN
ATMOSPHERIC WINDOW
LESS THAN SIX MINUTES.
CLOSING IN
WILL BE COMING IN HOW LONG?
AND ANOTHER ONE
DAYS. IS THERE A PROBLEM?
The problem is, Captain,
IF WE LEAVE OUR LITTLE
HATCHLING HERE
AND THE MOTHER
REJECTS IT,
it might die of exposure
before we get back.
I APPRECIATE YOUR CONCERN
FOR ITS WELFARE...
GIVE US, CAPTAIN?
HOW LONG CAN YOU
ONE MINUTE, TEN SECONDS, MAX.
WE'LL TAKE IT!
LOCK ON TO US, VOYAGER.
MUFFLED SCREAMS,
IF YOU HEAR
CONSIDER THAT A REQUEST
FOR A BEAM-OUT.
( roaring )
THERE'S NOTHING LIKE
A FAMILY REUNION.
( roaring )
VOYAGER, TWO TO BEAM OUT!
AS SOON AS YOU'RE READY.
Neelix:
KES!
WE DIDN'T KNOW IF YOU
WERE DEAD OR ALIVE.
WHAT HAPPENED?
I BECAME AN UNCLE.
AND I'M A GODMOTHER!
OCCASION I'VE BEEN WAITING FOR
I'D SAY THIS IS THE SPECIAL
TO OPEN UP THAT BOTTLE
OF POTAK COLD FOWL
I'VE BEEN SAVING.
IN A BOTTLE?
COLD FOWL
THAT'S JUST AN EXPRESSION,
ISN'T IT?
NO! IT'S ACTUALLY MADE
FROM THE GLANDULAR
SECRETIONS
OF AN ADULT DUNGHILL BIRD
FOUND ONLY ON POTAK THREE.
IT'S VERY RARE,
VERY EXQUISITE.
THERE ARE, I BELIEVE,
IN EXISTENCE AT THIS TIME.
ONLY 27 BOTTLES
IT HAS A RATHER
SMOKY FLAVOR.
UH... GOING WELL WITH
STRONG, MEATY DISHES,
BUT I PREFER IT FOR SIPPING...